(Chairman): Good morning, ladies and gentleman. Will the meeting please come to 
order. 
(pause)
Thank you. 
I would like to welcome you to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of 
(Company). 
We are Webcasting and recording this morning’s proceedings so that we 
can prepare a complete transcript for shareholders and employees 
unable to attend the meeting. 
With us today, seated to my left, are members of the board, and seated 
to my right are members of the (Company’s) senior management. 
I would like to take a moment to recognize (individual directors), two of 
our directors who are not standing for reelection this year. With their 
retirement, we are losing very substantial business expertise, wisdom
and just plain common sense. All of us will greatly miss their insight 
and counsel. 
The printed program, which was on your chair when you came in, sets 
forth today’s agenda and the procedures we will follow. 
We will conduct our Annual Meeting first, and upon adjournment 
immediately convene a shareholder assembly. 
At that time I will report on (the previous year) operating results and the 
(current year) outlook. Then there will be a period of general discussion 
and questions. This format allows us to complete our formal business 
expeditiously and move on to matters of general interest. 
Now I would like to introduce (Name), the Corporate Secretary. 
(Name) will establish that the meeting has been duly called and that a 
quorum is present for the Annual Meeting. 
(Corp. Secretary): Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The board fixed (record date), as the record 
date for determining shareholders entitled to vote at this meeting. An 
This document has been provided by the Society of Corporate Secretaries & Governance Professionals 
and is for individual use only. This document is not to be used for commercial purposes.
2
affidavit is with the Inspectors of Election attesting to the fact that the 
notice of meeting, the proxy statement and the (previous year) Annual 
Report to shareholders were mailed to all shareholders of record 
beginning (date).
As stated in the notice, the purposes of this meeting are as follows: 
First: To elect four directors for terms expiring in 20 __; 
Second: To ratify the appointment of independent registered public 
accounting firm (Firm Name) for 20 __; 
Finally: To transact any other business that may properly come before 
the meeting. 
(Individuals) of the (Transfer Agent), the corporation’s transfer agent, 
have been appointed to act as inspectors of election at this meeting. 
Both are present and have subscribed to their oath of office. They have 
submitted their report as follows: 
There were outstanding on the record date a total of (number) shares of 
common stock. The holders of not less than shares of common stock are 
present in person or by proxy. 
Approximately __% of the voting power or the outstanding shares is 
present at the meeting. Accordingly, Mr. Chairman, a quorum is 
present. 
(Chairman): On the basis of the Secretary’s report the meeting is duly convened. 
The polls for each matter voted on at this meeting will open when all of 
the proposals have been presented and will close immediately prior to 
adjournment. 
Now, we will conduct the formal business as set forth in the notice of 
the meeting. In order to conduct an orderly meeting and give all eligible 
shareholders an opportunity to participate, we will follow the procedures 
in the program. During the conduct of the formal business, questions 
and comments from the floor should pertain to the specific proposal 
then under consideration. I ask that anyone wishing to speak or raise a 
question move to the microphone located in the center aisle. The 
attendant will provide you with a card on which you should write your 
name and address and indicate your status as a shareholder. When you 
have filled out the card, hand it to the microphone attendant, who will 
introduce you. 
(Corporate Secretary), would you present the nominations for directors?
3
(Corp. Secretary): Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the board of directors, I nominate the 
following four persons, as named in the proxy statement, for election as 
directors to hold office for terms to expire in April, 20__ or until their 
successors have been elected and qualified: 
(Names of individual directors) 
(Chairman): Is there a second? 
(Individual): Second.
(short pause)
(Chairman): I declare the nominations closed. 
If a nomination from the floor is forthcoming:
(Company’s) Bylaws require that shareholders provide names of 
nominees to the Corporate Secretary at least 90 days before the date of 
the meeting and that information similar to that contained in the proxy 
be provided for each such candidate. No such notice was received. 
Therefore, your nomination is out of order.
(Chairman): If any shareholder has questions or comments specifically relating to the 
election of directors or these nominations, please approach the 
microphone. The attendant will introduce you. 
Are there any comments on the nominations? 
(discussion)
(Chairman): If there is no further discussion, the meeting will now proceed to the 
second item on the agenda concerning the ratification of the 
appointment of (Accounting Firm Name) as the corporation’s 
independent registered public accounting firm for the current year. The 
appointment of (Accounting Firm Name) was recommended to the 
board by the Audit Committee. (Corporate Secretary), would you 
present the resolution? 
(Corp. Secretary): Mr. Chairman, I move the adoption of the following resolution: 
Resolved, that the appointment of (Accounting Firm Name) as 
independent registered public accounting firm for (Company) for 20 __ 
is hereby ratified. 
(Chairman): Is there a second? 
(pause)
4
(Chairman): Are there any questions relating to the independent registered public 
accounting firm? 
(pause/discussion)
* * * * * * *
(Chairman): Shareholders who have sent in proxies need not take any further action 
with respect to any of the matters to be voted on today.
If you wish to vote in person, please raise your hand and keep it raised 
until an attendant has provided you with a ballot. You should complete 
and sign the ballot, place it in the envelope provided, and deliver it to an 
attendant. 
(pause for attendants to collect any ballots)
(Chairman): The next item on the agenda is the preliminary report of the inspectors. 
Any ballots collected before the polls close but not reflected in the 
preliminary report will be reflected in the final report of the inspectors. 
I call upon the Secretary to present the preliminary report of the 
inspectors. 
(Corp. Secretary): Mr. Chairman, the Inspectors or Election have presented their 
preliminary report. They have determined that each of the four directors 
nominated by the board for election received in excess of ___% of the 
votes cast for election of directors. 
The inspectors also determined that an excess of the majority of shares 
present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote were cast 
in favor of the ratification of the appointment of (Accounting Firm). 
(Chairman): Thank you, (Corporate Secretary). Based upon the preliminary report or 
the inspectors of election, I declare that: 
(names of individual-directors) are elected directors; and that the 
appointment of (Accounting Firm) as independent registered public 
accounting firm for 20 __ is ratified. 
(pause)
There being no further business to come before the meeting and all 
ballots having been collected, the polls are now closed. 
That concludes the formal part of our meeting. The Annual Meeting is 
adjourned.